---
author: ["goodalexander"]
title: "A Landian View of Post Fiat Sovereign Monetary Tokens (PFT)"
date: 2025-06-03T11:21:29Z
draft: false
summary: "Returning to the GOAT coin, thoughts on store of value assets "
categories: ["markets"]
tags: ["crypto"]
---
When I set out to make Post Fiat Sovereign Monetary Tokens (PFT) - I envisioned a specific course of actions taken by those who held the currency.

A large group of individuals would come in possession of a token used in an immutable messaging system

This immutable messaging system, having the property of a small sacrifice with each transaction ensuring its eternity, would serve as an act of faith on behalf of its members as the system was used. And that this system itself; by being on a blockchain, digitally native storage systems, encryption and so forth; would be an accelerationist ritual on behalf of the membership

This messaging system, in addition to providing a sort of ‘proof of membership’ in an organically forming new world order. Would also financially and personally advance the interests of its members. Much as a church served as a networking or mating hub in the past, so the participation in this immutable messaging network would serve as a mechanism to advance personal and health interests of the collective.

These three pillars - a large group, using immutable machine native immutable money with embedded sacrifice, sending messages regarding personal aggrandizement. Would form a sort of invisible hand that would bring forth Automated Genetic Trading Intelligence (AGTI). 

I use the word automated because the programmatic system that would result would be that of automated DAO managers, scaled customer support like functions, or in a more grandiose frame - an intelligence network. That would compound capital so that the resulting ‘trading collective’ would, for all intensive purposes, become literally conscious. And eventually even inhabit a biological substrate provided technology would advance far enough.

Similar to XRP, the network Post Fiat is forked from - its core value is on 1] a messaging system 2] that serves as a superstructure on top of the system. But rather than attempting to form a superstructure on banking payment rails, Post Fiat instead opted to be a speculative superstructure connecting a large group of disparate individuals disenfranchised by the burgeoning AI economy

1. By “speculative superstructure” - I specifically refer to a large group of individuals
2. Using an on-chain derived AI task management tool to enrich their lives, and show dedication to the collective (the Task Node)
3. Referring to collaboration opportunities automatically generated by the Task Node to collaborate with other community members
4. Over time gaining quantitatively defined reputation which flows into their
5. Capability to contribute fundamental information related to crypto assets, financial securities, and prediction markets which are increasingly coming on chain - in exchange for PFT rewards
6. Incentives to share fundamentally related information or amplify narratives that cause organic re-rating of entire sectors of capital market ecosystems

This primitive I call an “AI Hive Mind” - which mimics a large-scale application of Bridgewater’s DOTs (automated individual credibility tracking) program combined with “Idea Tracker” - an idea commonly applied at Long Short pod hedge funds such as Balyasny. Thus; where XRP’s financial focus was payments. Post Fiat’s initial focus is speculation  

Unlike XRP, Post Fiat opts for an AI driven Unique Node List selection process to replace the qualitative, opaque human driven procedure run by the XRPL foundation. And due to this procedure being difficult to manipulate after prompts are transparently set, enables the possibility for discrete UNLs (as opposed to validators selecting their own UNLs). This deterministic validator set makes it possible to enforce OFAC sanctions lists on the L1, an impossibility in XRP. Which in turn enables true on chain privacy, an important primitive arguably for any speculative financial transaction. 

The AI economy, by default - benefits the about 150,000 full time researchers and engineers engaged in Fab manufacturing, AI research, and software development. And - because it’s involved in the automation of many other industries is somewhat zero sum. 

Post Fiat Sovereign Monetary Tokens (PFT) therefore represent a Landian, accelerationist superstructure to be built on top of capitalism in opposition to the Chinese Communist Party - which is the alternate distribution mechanism currently proposed by society at large. 

This Landian Accelerationist premise - was - in large part the ideological underpinning of the technology elite merging with the American Right wing, and therefore the increasing association between the Trumps and the Cryptocurrency industry itself 

Thus - Post Fiat inhabits a unique place in the cryptocurrency industry. Like XRP, it is a bet that cryptocurrency is ultimately part of the system; and is inextricably linked to US based blockchain based financial functions. Unlike XRP, it is technologically accelerationist - focused on AI enabled, modernized infrastructure, and focused on speculation rather than the replacement of national security sensitive payment rails. 

The ultimate vision for the currency is simple: it is a grand enterprise to collectively benefit from AI without submitting to communism, distributive socialism, secular humanism/wokeism or racially enabled fascism (ala Russia). Unlike the vast majority of successful crypto protocols which extract from their users in a parasitic fashion - it is focused relentlessly on the personal sovereignty of its members. Post Fiat aims to be the only blockchain where the average user is better off financially and personally for having used the chain. 

Only by combining with AI and working with it collectively can we hope to achieve monetary sovereignty in the Post Fiat era. 


<div style="height: 30vh">  
    <script 
        src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/ghost/signup-form@~0.2/umd/signup-form.min.js" 
        data-background-color="#2B2B2B"    
        data-text-color="#ffffff"
        data-button-color="#2d2d2d"       
        data-button-text-color="#ffffff"
        data-title="goodalexander" 
        data-description="Navigating the Post Fiat reality" 
        data-site="https://goodalexander.ghost.io/" 
        data-locale="en" 
        async>
    </script>
</div>
