---
layout:     post
title:      Intention
date:       2020-10-01 11:21:29
summary:    Explaining what I am trying to do
---

## Philosophy of Success
There is a temptation to overly mechanically optimize "how" you are doing without optimizing "what" you are doing. Many employees of large corporations work 3-4x as hard as the CEO but generate 1/1000th of the financial result. This does not speak poorly of them, as they also might enjoy 1000x the amount of flow state (I know many engineers who would code for free and actually do). It's possible to enter the top 10%, or even the top 1% by "executing" better than everyone else. But it is nearly impossible to enter the .01%. 

Entering the .01% has very little to do with wealth, and more to do with societal impact and the ability to marshal resources towards an objective. Many people who chop wood better than most legitimately enjoy wooden tables, whereas many people who own the logging companies are often driven by feeding the poor and uninterested in wood furniture. This isn't an abstraction - having lived in Vancouver and met the participants, I can verify this directly! (to be honest, the guys chopping the wood are usually much more fun). Thus - I don't think there's any 'value' judgment associated with being a Samurai/ wood chopper, versus being a general or an logging CEO- but there are differences that are important, and I need to cover.

Steve Jobs wanted to make beautiful things people used every day. Bill Gates wanted to revolutionize computing and give back in a big way. Musk wants to die on mars. These are fundamentally non economic impulses. Whether you agree with them or not, it's hard to argue at a certain point that it's about money. Zuckerberg is a strange edge case in that he actually might want to become Augustus, and that it's about power / some bizarre notion of saving the Republic from itself, but that's a conversation for another day.

I have a fundamental non economic impulse. I believe society is spiraling towards destruction, that this destruction has its origins in the monetary system, and that radical action must be taken in the near term to move towards a better system or we risk losing the gains of modernity.

## Description of My Struggle

My life over the past several years has been a constant struggle between competing narratives.

One one hand, I've wanted to trade. It is my passion and my calling. It is actually the only thing I am truly world class at. On the other hand, I've wanted to start a company - because I understand the market, the multiples associated with financial technology, and the resulting impact of a real organization is higher than anything I could ever generate in trading PNL. If we're being honest, the obsession with doing both things has led neither of them to manifest as well as they should have. I could have gone to a large prop firm and put the numbers I'm putting up now and have generated tremendous wealth. Or I could have raised venture capital likely at a huge valuation, and be employing a large number of people towards a shared objective. Because I decided to do neither, and live as a lone samurai - my financial results have not been commensurate with my peers.

It's not that I haven't learned anything. Trading only your own money improves your edge, your focus, and your bloody mindedness. Losing money goes from a 'potentiality' to an unacceptable outcome. Risk management becomes paramount in a way that you can only understand if it's all your money on the line every day with leverage. When I was at Citigroup with a $200k drawdown as a 22 year old, I'd do things like trade $30m of EURNOK. I could have hit my drawdown in a minute. Now, as a 32 year old with a larger dradown limit (of my own $, not the bank's), the concept of trading that much EURNOK is laughable, and absurd. In some ways this is sad, but true misery comes from blowing up - a fate which bizarrely seems to befall some of history's best traders, and - in a personal sense - my own father. The reason I got in this game was that my father lost the fortune he made in science to the markets. It would be incredibly dark if I repeated his errors. 

The question is - going forward, how am I going to approach the problem - namely the problem of balancing investing and the creation of productive technology ventures, with the core objective of making a useful dent in the universe. First, articulating the problem.

##Reflection on Misconceptions

Trading well takes more than 12 hours a day of effort. It is nearly impossible to start a company when you spend 12 hours a day trading. At the same time, it is impossible to put a dent in the universe only trading - especially once you reach a scale where profits inherently involve the so called "manipulative function" - i.e. directly interacting with society. A study of the life of Soros actually shows that his trading brought into the world many things which existentially ran counter to everything he stood for. Nearly breaking the Ruble with his infamous FT article (after having been spurned by the Central Bank who he had advised) and profiting enormously likely led to the rise of Putin and Putin's subsequent revenge by destroying Soros' life work in philanthropy in the Ukraine. It is hard to argue that the politics of Brexit did not benefit from Soros' status as a financial Boogie man, and it is similarly hard to argue that the rise of nationalism has not benefited massively from Brexit. The deep irony and tragedy of Soros is that his aptly named theory of reflexivity boomeranged on him in what can only be called a reflexive fashion. 

The first obvious conclusion I make is that any organization I start has to have trading and PNL generation at its core. It cannot have some external objective so divorced from PNL that it suffers the same paradox that nullified Soros' life work. Citadel's HFT efforts if publicly traded would be worth far more than the fund, but would likely not exist if the fund did not precede them. There is high synergy between the two businesses. The idea of Ken Griffin running a start up focused on SAAS is almost laughable, but so is the idea of Citadel having any mission other than profit. This begs the question - what do I have to do, so that what I am working on is not similarly absurd? What trading business can exist in tandem with a genuine technology company, with a social purpose? How can this possibly be without being hypocritical, arrogant, absurd, and impractical?

My biggest mistake with my last business is that I chose a space orthogonal to trading with the hope the two spaces could merge - digital advertising. Even though we had some of the world's greatest hedge funds as customers and our advertising data was very much relevant to trading, the organizational DNA required to make a marketing behemoth was fundamentally incompatible with the DNA required to make a successful investment firm. The types of people attracted to digital marketing are passionate about helping small businesses, building beautiful brands, and delivering cool software to clients. This is almost the exact opposite type of person you want running a trading portfolio, or even a financial technology firm interfacing with good traders. Focusing well on investments means being detached, and focused on studying participants, not engaging with markets directly - which is the essence of advertising. Emotion and trading PNL are distinct, whereas emotion and marketing are inextricably linked. It sounds obvious, but it is subtle and something I certainly did not appreciate when I set off on my last journey. It took me years to realize this, and years to recover from the pain of having started the wrong company (a bout of Tricanosis and near liver failure which incapacitated me for a year certainly didn't help).

Given my goals in life, it's nearly impossible to justify focusing on trading exclusively. The age of automation is here, so my skills as a financial swordsman will be in direct competition with automatic rifles. I may fell a couple soldiers, but like Tom Cruise in the last Samurai, focusing on the Sword means being gunned down along with most of the people I love. Unlike The Samurai, I see no honor or glory in failure no matter the artfulness of my katana. At the same time, there are a number of disruptive changes to the technology environment which intersect with trading in a way that I can accumulate massive edge. I am probably the only person in the world who fully understands the extent to which advertising influences companies' share performance and vice-versa - just as one example. I'm likely the only person in the world who has applied the entire magnitude of US credit card data to predicting investment performance of IG and HY credit indices, as another. Because hedge funds view trading essentially as a science, rather than an interactive game as Soros proved it was - they have an inherent and structural disadvantage in the new normal of Robinhood investment and social media. 

## Laying out the variant thesis 

The essence of this thesis lies in an understanding of Soros theory of reflexivity. Normally, scientific outcomes dominate. But there are times when participants, such as central bankers or governments are studying an evolving and volatile situation and reacting to one another in real time. The interaction between these parties, and the mistakes they make due to the real time nature and impact of their actions, become the dominant driver of markets. Soros' 'super power' was recognizing when these situations were arising, and betting the ranch on their predictable resolution while other market participants (who he terms 'fundamentalists') dialed back their risk. The great irony of my last business venture is that I was treating digital advertising as a "market fundamentalist" would - studying human behavior in linear patterns to predict the future. I failed to grasp the obvious - that 1) the digital world was engaging directly in the world of investing in a way that had not been true in the past 2) people have emotions and broadly care about societal issues such as ethical treatment of employees and saving the environment. And for the third point and the crux of my thesis

3) The increasing scale and scope of the "monetary experiment" we find ourselves in, namely where non democratic entities such as the Fed and ECB have become the most important economic force for democracies - makes this all the more important. Christian Lagarde's entry into climate bonds at the start of 2020 marked an important, and epic regime shift in financial markets that is widely under appreciated and misunderstood by market particants. 

Governments' fiscal situation and extreme indebtedness requires Central Banks to monetize debt, and they will only be allowed to do so if they have the support of the democracies where they exist. Because voters can ultimately decide that the Central Banks shouldn't be allowed to print money, this introduces the beginning of a fundamentally new regime in markets where the moral attributes of bankers become the new determinant of all financial reality. If interest rates rise in an unpredictable fashion (as would happen if the Central Banks lost support), we could witness the end of the global monetary system in a fashion that would make Fight Club's Tyler Durden look like a kindergartener with a squirt gun. 

Armed with this variant understanding, this brings me to the answer to my question.

## Outlining Implementation

There are only really three choices for me. 

Choice one - Trade institutional scale capital, and try to profit from the coming monetary cataclysm as best I can while trying to provide for friends and family. Keep quiet, make good returns, figure out the mechanics for the inevitable monetary reset (Bitcoin, or some other bridge format) and move assets there. Leave densely populated areas. Have a bunker. If all goes well, spend my old age trading and laughing about my absurdist conspiracy theories. 

Choice two - continue on the path of the samurai. Try to become so profitable on small scale securities that the pnl resembles choice one with less IP leakage. Build out market making operations and bootstrap. Perhaps I can save a large number of other people from the system - something I'd be excited about. The slog of corporate insanity is not worth it for many, and they're marginalized. The problem with this vision is that all trading is 0 sum. I cannot dissipate my edge willingly and maintain the path of the Warrior. 

Choice three - start a company that brings to bear all of my knowledge, all of the pain I've been through, all of my edge into one singular entity dedicated to preventing the financial cataclysm. Use the resources available to change the world for the better, and ideally, help avert the Catastrophe. 

Because I know what choices one and two look like, it's worth spending time discussing choice 3.

## Describing Structure

Let's begin with what needs to be built.

The S&P 500 isn't coherent because technology is now accelerating faster than market capitalization can reasonably keep up to accurately reflect prices. $ 2 trillion stocks like Apple shouldn't move 10% a day for no reason. But they do. The number of people claiming to be "AI 5G IOT Genomics Clean Tech" companies vastly outpaces the number of companies doing anything useful in these important places. Thus - the areas most critical for us moving to a sustainable economy are wrought with fraud and financial malfeasance, or just terrible misunderstanding on the part of investors which drives outsized volatility. Volatility and lack of clarity lower the amount of assets that can be deployed in the space. This is very bad - because, as Central banks increasingly need to purchase assets - they need a basis for moving such purchases towards the pursuit of things that are good for society. The boom of ESG investing is too blunt - in the sense that it is pretty clear that we shouldn't invest in big oil or tobacco but far less clear on what the productive areas of investment are or actually look like. Central banks are doing "asset purchases" not "asset divestments". Asset divestments make us feel good but don't do anything other than raise the cost of capital for businesses. Also, just because Procter and Gamble / McDonald's don't pollute doesn't mean its products are broadly good for Society or contribute meaningfully to a coherent end state where we generate enough economic output to pay off exorbitant debts without inflating away everyone's pensions. 

The core problem with the economy is that it doesn't scale. If Indians and Chinese consumed 26 bbl of oil per day, the same as US citizens, we'd all choke to death. Certainly, climate change matters - because it compounds food scarcity and leads to situations like wildfires that make all of us miserable. Stopping climate change is important but we can't just completely slam the breaks on global society without a growth path - because we simply have too much debt for that option. Furthermore, a collapse in the global economy would incentivize a return to the old petro-chemical complex to stimulate growth via infrasturcture investment, which would actually make pollution and climate change worse. Thus - not only do we need to stop burning fossil fuels and killing ourselves in various other ways (like ingesting harmful pesticides) - we also need to build a system that can enable the 3+ billion people of the world to meaningfully participate in driving economic growth. This economy simply cannot be based on consumer goods. It will have to be digital. 

The first step - I think - for bringing to bear the trillion dollars of institutional capital invested in useless assets like Gold towards productive purposes. The way you do that is creating a trusted third party, like a Moody's, to vet the new economy. You provide software tools to institutions to provide a 10x better service than Moody's. And - in my case, you need to deliver a low volatility exposure to these new asset classes in a way that institutions can wrap their heads around while meeting their ESG capital deployment targets.

Thus - the correct business template is 1) an indexing business like moody's 2) a software infrastructure layer that delivers 10x better experience than S&P global or MSCI. This includes providing useful fintech like tools to investors. 3) a trading fund that serves as a flagship product for institutions to invest in a sustainable future.

Because I personally can only deliver on #3, and I believe you need ownership of a business for the business to work - I need two other cofounders. One to run the Indexing Business. The other to run the Software Infrastructure Layer. Realistically, we can achieve product market fit if all 3 of us are technical and working on the products together. It is suboptimal to raise money before achieving product market fit for a number of reasons - mostly that optics comes to dominate the narrative of the company rather than actual results, from the get go. Furthermore, it's likely that our customers would be well capitalized family offices and if they loved the product, they'd be high synergy investors well set up to write venture check (something like 70% of family offices are equipped to do so). Thankfully, I have all these people in place.

I am a reluctant CEO in the sense that I'm going to be overwhelmed with the combination of my investing duties and meeting with investors - but do expect to derive some advantage from having preferential access to the politicians, and institutional capitalists responsible for moving the system forward. Working to trade the fund's capital and manage quantitative strategy while taking on this role will likely consume my life for the next 5 years. 

But what's the alternative? 

The truth is any company that you build in the current environment that doesn't address the core fiscal and monetary unsustainability of the underlying system is the equivalent to building a sand castle on a beach during a tsunami. 

## Call To Action and Specifics

Thus - having written this and come to an inescapable conclusion, the next steps are action. 

The what: software. Build it. Ship it and sell it. Indexing - define it in useful industries, and engage with indexers. Generate PNL trading ESG/ Climate names. Build buzz on Financial Twitter
The who: Travis (Indexing), Shawn (Software) , Myself (Trading and Sales). Initial founders to reach product market fit 
The when: Monday demo 
The why: we need a trusted third party to fix the global economy because passive doesn’t cut it
The how: relentless focus. No breaks. No relationships. No distractions. Exercise, food, work until $1m ARR reached. 
The where: Vancouver




