---
layout:     post
title:      Oh Normie Where Art Thou 
date:       2023-07-12 11:21:29
summary:   avoiding a life of economic serfdom paying for the Baby Boomer’s excesses 
---

Warning: what you are about to read has references to explicit content, and is chronically online in a way that you probably won't be able to handle if you have less than 3 hours of daily screentime 

## Geospatial Normies 

When you get older, you will face a large amount of pressure to conform to the people around you. They have children. Normal jobs. Live in the same areas. 

“It takes a village.” Mindset permeates child-rearing. Keeping up with the Joneses becomes a default setting for couples who do not have much in common and therefore must baseline on a societal expectation. 

We also assume that economic output should roughly follow an academic distribution, or an athletic one. “I am just as smart as he is so therefore I should make just as much money.” 

But underneath the ideas of “academic or athletic performance” or “the community” are physical location. Neighbors are defined physically, inside of countries. This is the essence of the normie. They exist in the meatspace, not on the internet. They are not fungible across countries - due to a mix of patriotism, requirements of office work, and local loyalties such as family, churches, daycares, and activities. 

Thus - the paths to becoming a normie are:
1. Hanging out with friends who have children anchored in a physical community 
2. Mating with someone without much in common with you which forces you onto a materialist mutual narrative anchored in a physical community 
3. Constantly defining your self worth or comparing it to other peoples on the axes of physical or geolocated properties (clothes, real estate, country club status)
4. Keeping a set of values which extols God, Country, or Community above technological advancement and the virtue of selfishness 
5. Doing all of the above outside a big city where you can get “stuck”

Now - you might think, “This guy is just unhinged. I want to become a normie.”

Do you?

## Debt Like 1944 with No Baby Boom. Sorry Normies. 

If you become a normie, you lose the game. This was not always the case. It is simply a relic of the fact that the boomers have set the game up so that future normies would have to pay for their retirement. Let me explain. 

Global debt to GDP is 3x and the dependency ratio is the worst it has ever been due to a mix of declining birth rate and China’s disastrous 1 child policy. US unfunded liabilities and medicare liabilities are just as big as the national debt which sits at 127% of GDP. We have Post WW2 style fiscal dynamics without a baby boom. The thing which could potentially “hail mary” economic growth is AI. But the people who are building AI are globalists. 

Ilya Sutskever and Sam Altman both espouse non-US centric worldviews. Watch their videos, especially Ilya talking to Israeli audiences. He views consciousness as an objective higher than the nation state. AI models can migrate from country to country. And they will.

## Hyper digitalization 

People say remote work is dead, but it hasn’t even happened yet. Zoom calls don’t create the feel and culture of an office. There’s no “presence”. People can actually work multiple jobs. But metaverse offices will fix all these problems. Don’t believe me? Get a metaquest Pro and do a whiteboarding session in Workrooms. Work side to side in Immersed, for hours. It’s a fundamentally different experience requiring your full undivided attention. It's still hard on the eyes, but Apple’s VisionPro is going to change that. We are about 1 year from mass adoption for the Corporate Metaverse. The current hardware already supports this, just not native to a headset (requires a graphics chip to render). Go onto your PC. Install Fallout for VR. Go in to settings and turn on 90 htz, 960mbps bitrate, with an Nvidiia 3080 and ENB reshade. It looks better than real life.

When the corporate metaverse happens the entire commercial real estate sector will go into free fall causing a market crash and a municipal funding crisis that will be accompanied by urban crime waves and further acceleration of the metaverse thematic (see what is happening in SF, Seattle).

Online dating has broken mating dynamics because one “alpha male” can essentially sleep with 10+ eligible women who will “anchor” to that sexual experience and be perennially disappointed with their future mates who will settle for them. The net result is unsatisfied women who have tasted something better but can't keep it, and men who feel humiliated by "Chads" who their future wives will forever view as the ones who got away. 

Human relationships in the West therefore have a pretty bad user experience. But most people aren't going to go full Andrew Tate and convert to Islam. Tech is coming to the "rescue". 

Cutting edge apps like Captain Hardcore (fully immersive VR porn) and increasingly AI integrated porn experiences (already shipping with vamX) which personalize and add customized dialogue, combined with haptics are going to make porn 10x more addictive than it is currently. Right now - porn doesn’t provide a complete substitute to a relationship for most men. But in the future, that is going to change - because the form factor is improving so much. This factor alone will result in mass headset adoption. The UX of Apple’s VisionPro, in particular, is optimized for lying in bed and dynamic AR experiences due to its form factor (unlike the Metaquest Pro) which will result in mass pornography addiction and further adoption.

## The Big Rug / The Post Society Speed Run 

So let’s be clear about what the world looks like in 3 years. Men don’t need or want relationships or marriage because they’ve fully blackpilled due to extremely addictive immersive porn. They are fully VR native and therefore well suited to working in metaverse first corporations - which become a thing due to the superior UX/ rendering capabilities of Apple’s new headsets and responses from Meta/others. The economy is primarily digital thanks to an AI boom that is now largely priced into markets.  Birth rates go into freefall, and urban crime skyrockets, further breaking any hope of fiscal balance. With mass baby boomer retirement - dependency ratios go vertical.  

We have yet to feel the impacts of rising rates in corporate borrowing costs, or housing costs, because the vast majority of debt at both personal and corporate levels has not needed to be refinanced. The reason governments are talking about CBDCs isn’t because you are jumping up and down demanding CBDCs. The plan is to force normies to use digital currencies, and then implement wealth and use taxes “on-chain” - at a currency level. If you control money and banking you control life, completely. These tools will be necessary to stop people from expatriating en masse and to increase the tax rates to the required level to pay for basic government services. 

It won’t be enough, however, because the only way to really stop any of the above inevitabilities (VisionPro making the personal/corporate metaverse a thing, and AI digitizing the economy) - would be authoritarianism. But despite loud claims on Twitter to the contrary, the West is mostly democratic. So there will be a window where smart people will get out of the system, move their funds into cryptocurrency, and re-domicile before the gates slam shut. Because democracies are slow. 

## Run, Anon, Run 

But democracies are not dumb, and they’re majoritarian. The collective will inevitably vote to confiscate the property of the ultra-rich, especially because the ultra-rich will be increasingly disconnected from society. Isolated porn addicts. Or biohacked freaks who think they’re charismatic but really are extremely alienating. Look at how society is responding to Elon or the All-In Pod. They think they’re the hilarious In-Group but reality is closer to Marie Antoinette energy. Dudes writing code inside of headsets, not integrated into society won’t be a sympathetic political cohort. 

China and the US will continue their Cold War because of the CCP’s territorial ambitions for Taiwan. Both countries will be pressured to court countries in Latin America and the Middle East. AI will start creating biotech advancements that cannot be quickly approved by slow moving entities like the FDA. 

Increasingly the ultra-wealthy will not just be depatriating because of fear of wealth confiscation, but also a desire for life extension and cutting edge medical treatments that can extend their lives. This is already happening. 

So really there’s a big divide.

The normies. The people who work for the system. Do their part. Have families. Eat the bitter pills of fiscal austerity and higher taxes to pay for the medical support for the boomers. Take on the burden of the national debt. For God and Country. Good people, kind people 

And the Accelerationists. The people who see technology as sacrosanct and have no loyalty to anyone or anything other than themselves. The people who, for better or worse, fully embrace the metaverse, the breakdown of the family structure, and the supremacy of AI over human judgment. Who view human biology as a constraint rather than something sacrosanct. 

The Accelerationists are going to generate all the economic value. We live in an economy of bits. The normie’s economy is a polluting, consumer driven ponzi that only results in higher debt, physical malady, and petroleum consumption. Ironically the normie politicians in most of the world actually understand this and - through green initiatives, will further drive physical world de-development which will only accelerate economic digitization. Normies will finance the entire thing through violent confiscation and money printing. It won’t be enough and will cave in on itself in a massive deflationary collapse (debt defaults), followed by an inflationary rampage. 

So being a normie is stupid and insane. Most people disagree, for now, but not the people who know how to produce in the economy of bits. If you take the time to listen to these people, you’ll get a sense of which way the wind is blowing. 

And frankly it’s more of a hurricane. 

## So What Do

It’s not very complicated.

1. Build online communities and be a primarily online, non-nationalistic person. 
2. Avoid politicians. Never accept money from any government. Never do business with somebody with a security clearance. Have a zero tolerance policy for politics.
3. If you can help it, don’t raise money from the US or China. Have US and Chinese customers, but try to avoid US and Chinese physical presence. Don’t want to get clipped in a battle for the ages
4. Learn multiple languages and be able to exist as a global citizen with a focus on Latin America and the Middle East. Learn how to be a physical nomad from a productivity and health standpoint (both personal and corporate)
5. Understand cryptocurrency and self custody
6. Build economic value in the digital economy and understand how to apply AI tools to your work 
7. Learn how to invest in a post-nation state world, and identify founders/companies that align with the non-normie vision
8. Be an accelerationist. Biohack. Focus on longevity. Play VR games. Stay up on the tech. Don’t be a normie. 
9. Don’t get trapped in the status games of the geo-centric world
10. Get ready right now. First wave of CBDCs will go down in 2025, then you’re realistically probably stuck. 

None of this is financial advice, or personal advice. But I'll end with a quote from Satoshi Nakamoto: "If you don't believe me or don't get it, I don't have time to try to convince you, sorry"
